Add a blog post about VolumeAttributesClass (#43777)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2023-11-20-volume-attributes-class/index.md

Reviewer: When using on ordered list, please indent the following code blocks to make the code sample part of the `<li>` when it renders into HTML.

Author: Which part is considered as a ordered list? All the code blocks with ```?

Reviewer: I can't provide an example because GitHub interprets ``` itself, but anything between (eg)
```
1. First item
```
and
```
1. Second item
```
should probably be indented by exactly 3 spaces.

Author: But where is a list in this PR? It is yaml format without order?

> # Kubernetes v1.29: VolumeAttributesClass for Volume Modification

Reviewer 2: The blog post format needs to begin with these lines:

`---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.29: VolumeAttributesClass for Volume Modification"
date: 2023-11-15
slug: kubernetes-1-29-volume-attributes-class
---

**Author:** Sunny Song (Google)`

> # Kubernetes v1.29: VolumeAttributesClass for Volume Modification

Reviewer 2: [See my comment](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43777#issuecomment-1815547950) about the correct formatting for the blog post

Author: Updated base on comments: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43777/commits/3367a8769727355562693894f777af77b7cf592b

**Authors**: Sunny Song(Google)

> The v1.29 release of Kubernetes introduced an alpha feature to support modify volume by changing VolumeAttributesClass that was assigned to a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC). With the feature enabled, Kubernetes can handle updates of volume attributes other than capacity. Allowing volume attributes to be changed without managing it through different provider's APIs directly simplifies the current flow.

Author: Updated in: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43777/commits/3367a8769727355562693894f777af77b7cf592b

> The v1.29 release of Kubernetes introduced an alpha feature to support modify volume by changing VolumeAttributesClass that was assigned to a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC). With the feature enabled, Kubernetes can handle updates of volume attributes other than capacity. Allowing volume attributes to be changed without managing it through different provider's APIs directly simplifies the current flow.

Reviewer 3: > by changing VolumeAttributesClass that was assigned to a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC).

It maybe misunderstand by users how to change the volume attributes of a PVC. It should be changed the reference of the PVC's volume attributes class by editing the PVC's spec.volumeAttributesClassName field, not the VolumeAttributesClass itself.

cc @Ritikaa96 @sunnylovestiramisu

## VolumeAttributesClass

The new resource.k8s.io/v1alpha1 API group provides two new types:

**VolumeAttributesClass**

Represents a specification of mutable volume attributes defined by the CSI driver. The class can be specified during dynamic provisioning of PersistentVolumeClaims, and changed in the PersistentVolumeClaim spec after provisioning.

**ModifyVolumeStatus**

Represents the status object of ControllerModifyVolume operation.

With this alpha feature enabled, the spec of PersistentVolumeClaim defines VolumeAttributesClassName that are used in the PVC. At volume provisioning, CreateVolume operation will apply the parameters in the VolumeAttributesClass along with the parameters in the StorageClass.

When there is a change of volumeAttributesClassName in the PVC spec, the external-resizer sidecar will get an informer event. Based on the current state of the configuration, the resizer will trigger a CSI ControllerModifyVolume. The diagram below shows the flow:

![VolumeAttributesClass ModifyVolume Flow](VolumeAttributesClass-ModifyVolume-Flow-v3.png)

## How to use it

> If you want to test the feature whilst it's alpha, you need to enable the relevant feature gate in the kube-controller-manager and the kube-apiserver. Use the --feature-gates command line argument:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to test the feature whilst it's alpha, you need to enable the relevant feature gate
in the kube-controller-manager and the kube-apiserver. Use the --feature-gates command line argument:
```

layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.29: VolumeAttributesClass for Volume Modification"
date: 2023-12-01
slug: kubernetes-1-29-volume-attributes-class
---

> **Authors**: Sunny Song(Google)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Author**: Sunny Song (Google)
```

> The v1.29 release of Kubernetes introduced an alpha feature to support modify volume

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The v1.29 release of Kubernetes introduced an alpha feature to support modifying a volume
```

by changing VolumeAttributesClass that was assigned to a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC).
With the feature enabled, Kubernetes can handle updates of volume attributes other than capacity.
Allowing volume attributes to be changed without managing it through different
provider's APIs directly simplifies the current flow.

> You can read VolumeAttributesClass in the Kubernetes documentation for more details

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can read about VolumeAttributesClass usage details in the Kubernetes documentation
```

> about how to use that, or you can read on to learn about why the Kubernetes project is supporting this feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or you can read on to learn about why the Kubernetes project is supporting this feature.
```

## VolumeAttributesClass

> The new resource.k8s.io/v1alpha1 API group provides two new types:

Reviewer 3: `resource.k8s.io/v1alpha1` is not correct.

**VolumeAttributesClass**

Represents a specification of mutable volume attributes defined by the CSI driver.
The class can be specified during dynamic provisioning of PersistentVolumeClaims,
and changed in the PersistentVolumeClaim spec after provisioning.

**ModifyVolumeStatus**

> Represents the status object of ControllerModifyVolume operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Represents the status object of `ControllerModifyVolume` operation.
```

With this alpha feature enabled, the spec of PersistentVolumeClaim defines VolumeAttributesClassName
that are used in the PVC. At volume provisioning, CreateVolume operation will apply the parameters in the
VolumeAttributesClass along with the parameters in the StorageClass.

When there is a change of volumeAttributesClassName in the PVC spec,
the external-resizer sidecar will get an informer event. Based on the current state of the configuration,
the resizer will trigger a CSI ControllerModifyVolume. The diagram below shows the flow:

> ![VolumeAttributesClass ModifyVolume Flow](VolumeAttributesClass-ModifyVolume-Flow-v3.png)

Reviewer: Please add an alt attribute that explains the diagram to someone who who has trouble seeing clearly. Ideally: use a [`figure`](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#figure) shortcode.

## How to use it

If you want to test the feature whilst it's alpha, you need to enable the relevant feature gate

> in the kube-controller-manager and the kube-apiserver. Use the --feature-gates command line argument:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the kube-controller-manager and the kube-apiserver. Use the `--feature-gates` command line argument:
```

```
--feature-gates="...,VolumeAttributesClass=true"
```

> It also requires the CSI driver has implemented the ModifyVolume API.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It also requires that the CSI driver has implemented the ModifyVolume API.
```

### User Flow

> If you would like to see the feature in action and verify it works fine in your cluster here's what you can try:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you would like to see the feature in action and verify it works fine in your cluster, here's what you can try:
```

1. Define a StorageClass and VolumeAttributesClass

```
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: csi-sc-example
provisioner: pd.csi.storage.gke.io
parameters:
  disk-type: "hyperdisk-balanced"
volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
```

```
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: VolumeAttributesClass
metadata:
  name: silver
driverName: pd.csi.storage.gke.io
parameters:
  provisioned-iops: "3000"
  provisioned-throughput: "50"
```

2. Define and create the PersistentVolumeClaim

>     ```

Reviewer: The backticks should be at the start of the line.

apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: test-pv-claim
spec:
  storageClassName: csi-sc-example
  volumeAttributesClassName: silver
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 64Gi
```

> 3. Verify that PersistentVolumeClaims is now provisioned correctly with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Verify that PersistentVolumeClaim is now provisioned correctly with:
```

>     ```

Reviewer: The backticks should be at the start of the line.

kubectl get pvc
```

4. Create a new VolumeAttributesClass gold:

```
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: VolumeAttributesClass
metadata:
  name: gold
driverName: pd.csi.storage.gke.io
parameters:
  iops: "4000"
  throughput: "60"
```

5. Update the PVC with the new VolumeAttributesClass and apply:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: test-pv-claim
spec:
  storageClassName: csi-sc-example
  volumeAttributesClassName: gold
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 64Gi

```

6. Verify that PersistentVolumeClaims has the updated VolumeAttributesClass parameters with:

```

> kubectl describe pvc {PVC_NAME}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl describe pvc <PVC_NAME>
```

```

## Next steps

> *   See the [VolumeAttributesClass KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/3751-volume-attributes-class) for more information on the design

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* See the [VolumeAttributesClass KEP](https://kep.k8s.io/3751) for more information on the design
```

*   You can view or comment on the [project board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes-csi/projects/72) for VolumeAttributesClass
*   In order to move this feature towards beta, we need feedback from the community,
so here's a call to action: add support to the CSI drivers, try out this feature,
consider how it can help with problems that your users are having…

## Getting involved

> We always welcome new contributors so if you would like to get involved you can join our [Kubernetes Storage Special-Interest-Group](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-storage) (SIG).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We always welcome new contributors. So, if you would like to get involved, you can join our [Kubernetes Storage Special-Interest-Group](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-storage) (SIG).
```
